# Jumping into Front End development 

(after doing Backend devlopment for a while)

Oh boy, I jumped in the deep end with that thought and boy, did I learn a lot about Front End Dev. 

## Problem 1 - Actually creating a React App

How hard could it be?  Just create a React application and viola! ...Right?

It's not actually that simple.

Create React App or CRA for short, has been a little [dead in the water](https://github.com/reactjs/react.dev/pull/5487#issuecomment-1409720741) for a little while. So, starting a new project in React requires you choose from four frameworks: 

* NextJS maintained by Vercel
* Remix maintained by Shopify
* GatsbyJS maintained by Netlify
* Expo (for native apps) maintained by Expo

I originally wanted to have a look at Remix since that's more similar to the React I'm used to but the `npx create-remix` command was broken so I decided to have a look at NextJS instead.

## Problem 2 - How do I set up Routes?

This was a stark change to setting up routes with React Router as shown below. 

```js
ReactDOM.createRoot(root).render(
  <BrowserRouter>
    <Routes>
      <Route path="/" element={<HomePage />} />
      <Route path="about" element={<AboutPage />}>
      </Route>
    </Routes>
  </BrowserRouter>
);
```

As of writing, NextJS uses an app router.  What that means is that if you create a page.jsx under the app folder or use the one it creates, it will automatically create a route.  

```
app
|
--> page.tsx
```

That means if you navigate to "localhost:3000", NextJS will render a page with a Heading 1 that says "Home Page"
```js
const HomePage = () => {
  return <h1>Home Page</h1>
}

export default HomePage();
```

You can actually add more page but they need to be in folders.  So, say you wanted an About Page - you'd create an about folder with a pages.tsx in it.

```
app
|
--> page.tsx
|
--> about
    |
    --> page.tsx
```

```js
const AboutPage = () => {
  return <h1>About Page</h1>
}

export default AboutPage();
```

If you navigate to "localhost:3000/about", it will render the About page.  

I'll admit, I didn't like it at first but it really grew on me.  It's a lot simpler to see what the routes are going to be by looking at the file structure, rather than the router set up by React Router.  